Docs: getting started with Kibana Security (#94158)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/security/tutorials/how-to-secure-access-to-kibana.asciidoc

The assets you create in one space are isolated from other spaces, so when you enter a space, you only see the assets that belong to that space.

Refer to the <<xpack-spaces, Spaces documentation>> for more information.

[float]
=== Roles

Once your spaces are setup, the next step to securing access is to provision your roles. Roles are a collection of privileges that allow you to perform actions in {kib} and Elasticsearch. Roles are assigned to both users Elastic stack components.

You can create your own roles, or used any of the {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in roles]. Note that some of the built-in roles are intended for Elastic stack components, and should not be assigned to end users directly.

One of the more useful built-in roles is `kibana_admin`. Assigning this role to your users will grant access to all if {kib}'s features. This includes the ability to manage Spaces.

> These built-in roles are great for getting started with the stack, and for system administrators who do not need more restrictive access. With so many features, it’s not possible for us to ship more granular roles to accommodate everyone’s needs. This is where custom roles come in. As an administrator, you have the ability to create your own roles to describe exactly the kind of access your users should have. For example, you might create a `marketing_user` role, which you then assign to all users in your marketing department. This role would grant access to all of the necessary data and features for this team to be successful, without granting them access they don’t require.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in roles are great for getting started with the Elastic Stack, and for system administrators who do not need more restrictive access. With so many features, it’s not possible to ship more granular roles to accommodate everyone’s needs. This is where custom roles come in. As an administrator, you have the ability to create your own roles to describe exactly the kind of access your users should have. For example, you might create a `marketing_user` role, which you then assign to all users in your marketing department. This role would grant access to all of the necessary data and features for this team to be successful, without granting them access they don’t require.
```

Reviewer: This paragraph is long.  Suggest breaking it into two paragraphs.

[float]
=== Users

Once your roles are setup, the next step to securing access is to create your users, and assign them one or more roles. {kib}'s user management allows you to provision accounts for each of your users.

TIP: Want Single Sign-on? {kib} supports a wide range of SSO implementations, including SAML, OIDC, LDAP/AD, and Kerberos. <<kibana-authentication, Learn more about {kib}'s SSO features>>.

[float]
[[tutorial-secure-kibana-dashboards-only]]
=== Example: Create a user with access only to dashboards

> Let’s work through an example together. Consider a marketing analyst who wants to monitor the effectiveness of their campaigns. They should be able to see their team’s dashboards, but they should not be allowed to view or manage anything else in {kib}. All of their team’s dashboards are located in the `Marketing` space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s work through an example together. Consider a marketing analyst who wants to monitor the effectiveness of their campaigns. They should be able to see their team’s dashboards, but not be allowed to view or manage anything else in {kib}. All of the team’s dashboards are located in the Marketing space.
```

[float]
==== Create a space

> Create a `Marketing` space for your marketing analysts to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Marketing space for your marketing analysts to use.
```

. Open the main menu, and select **Stack Management**.

> . Under **{kib}**, select **Spaces**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under **{kib}**, select **Spaces**.
```

. Click **Create a space**.
. Give this space a unique name. For example: `Marketing`.
. Click **Create space**.

If you’ve followed the example above, you should end up with a space that looks like this:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/tutorial-secure-access-example-1-space.png[Create space UI]

[float]
==== Create a role

Create a role that describes the privileges you want to grant.

> To effectively use dashboards, the marketing analyst will need:

Reviewer: Combine this sentence with the previous paragraph.

* Access to **read** the data that powers the dashboards

> * Access to **read** the dashboards within the `Marketing` space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Access to **read** the dashboards within the `Marketing` space
```

> . Open the main menu, and select **Stack Management**.

Reviewer: This should not be indented under the "Access to read the dashboards..."  bullet point.  Instead, it should be step 1.

. Under **Security**, select **Roles**.
. Click **Create role**.
. Give this role a unique name. For example: `marketing_dashboards_role`.
. For this example, you want to store all marketing data in the `acme-marketing-*` set of indices. To grant this access, locate the **Index privileges** section and enter:
.. `acme-marketing-*` in the **Index** field.
.. `read` and `view_index_metadata` in the **Privileges** field.
+

> TIP: You can add multiple patterns of indices, and grant different access levels to each. Click **Add index privilege** to grant additional access.

Reviewer: Should "patterns of indices" be "index patterns"?

Author: I was trying to avoid saying "index patterns" so as not to confuse this concept with Kibana's Index Patterns feature. Happy to use whichever term you think makes the most sense

. To grant access to dashboards in the `Marketing` space, locate the {kib} section, and click **Add {kib} privilege**:
.. From the **Spaces** dropdown, select the `Marketing` space.
.. Expand the **Analytics** section, and select the **Read** privilege for the **Dashboard** feature.
.. Click **Add Kibana privilege**.
. Click **Create role**.

If you’ve followed the example above, you should end up with a role that looks like this:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/tutorial-secure-access-example-1-role.png[Create role UI]

[float]
==== Create a user

Now that you created a role, create a user account.

. Navigate to *Stack Management*, and under *Security*, select *Users*.
. Click *Create user*.
. Give this user a descriptive username, and choose a secure password.
. Assign the *marketing_dashboards_role* that you previously created to this new user.
. Click *Create user*.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/tutorial-secure-access-example-1-user.png[Create user UI]

[float]
==== Verify

> Now that you have a user and role, verify that everything is working correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the user and role are working correctly.
```

. Logout of {kib} if you are already logged in.
. In the login screen, enter the username and password for the account you created.

> You’re taken into the `Marketing` space, and the main navigation shows only the *Dashboard* application.

Reviewer: If you include a "+" on lines 117 and 119, the sentence and image will indent under step 2.

Author: Oh that's great! Thanks for the tip
